# The Actigraphy Project
---

# Overview
---

Actigraphy allows a non-invasive and cost-effective assessment of the functional manifestation of the circadian control under naturalistic settings in terms of rest-activity patterns, which enables scalable applications in population and large cohort study settings.

We developed a software application, ezActi, in the MATLAB<sup>&copy;</sup> platform (R2022a and later versions, The MathWorks Inc., Natick, MA) that implements a number of algorithms for rest-activity rhythms analysis. We hope that such an application will ease and facilitate these analyses in a wider community within and beyond the network of sleep and circadian biologists, physiologists, and clinicians.

The current release represents the second major updates, and thus the software application is formally named "*ezActi2*."

# Repo Contents
---

- [@acti](./@acti): MATLAB source code for the *acti* class.
- [@actigraphy](./@actigraphy): MATLAB source code for the *actigraphy* class.
- [@actigraphy2](./@actigraphy2): MATLAB source code for the *actigraphy2* class. This will eventually replace the *actigraphy* class in future releases.
- [@actogram](./@actogram): MATLAB source code for the *actogram* class.
- [@cosinor](./@cosinor): MATLAB source code for the *cosinor* class.
- [@common](./common): MATLAB source code for common dependencies.
- [ezActi](./ezActi): MATLAB source code for *ezActi*. This is the first release of *ezActi* which has now stopped updating.
- [ezActi2](./ezActi2): MATLAB source code for the *ezActi2*. This is the current release of *ezActi*.
- [rhythm](./rhythm): MATLAB source code for dependencies related to rhythmicity analysis.
- [test](./test): test data.

# Other Dependencies
---

- [Physiological Time Series](../Physiological-time-series)
- [Plot Rendering](../plot-spec)
- [Detrended Fluctuation Analysis](../dfa)

# System Requirements
---

## Hardware

Morden standard computers or laptops will work. It is recommended that a minimal of 16 GB RAM is equipped to facilitate most of the analysis. For optimal performance, CPU of 4+ cores with 3.3+ GHz/core are recommended.

## Software

### OS

The App has been tested on the following systems.
- Windows 11
- Mac OS
- Linux: Ubuntu

### MATLAB platform and toolboxes

The App is developed in the MATLAB platform. MATLAB version R2022a or newer is required. It may be able to run in older versions of MATLAB, but performance/functions are not guaranteed.

The following toolboxes are required.

- Signal Processing Toolbox
- Deep Learning Toolbox
- Statistics and Machine Learning Toolbox

# Installation Guide
---

Please clone this repo and all dependencies in [Other Dependences](#other-dependences) to local directory. The following commands should work:

```
git clone git@github.com:pliphd/Actigraphy.git
git clone git@github.com:pliphd/Physiological-time-series.git
git clone git@github.com:pliphd/plot-spec.git
git clone git@github.com:pliphd/dfa.git
```

After this step, you can add all folders generated by the above commands (including sub-folders) into the MATLAB path by using:

```
pathtool
```

in MATLAB command window. You can also do so by the *Set Path* button on MATLAB *HOME*.

To run *ezActi2*, you can type:

```
ezActi2
```

in MATLAB command window. The App will pop out if the above steps are successfully done.

# Reading Materials and Citations
---

I recommend you go over the following webpage or papers.

- P Li. [ezActi—A Software Application for Actigraphy Analysis](https://pliphd.github.io/resources/EzActi-A-Software-Application-for-Actigraphy-Analysis/){:target="_blank"}
- C Gao, *et al*. Approaches for assessing circadian rest-activity patterns using actigraphy for cohort and population-based studies. *Current Sleep Medicine Reports* 2023. [Link to the article <i class="bi bi-file-pdf"></i>](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40675-023-00267-4){:target="_blank"}

I kindly ask that you cite the above-referenced article(s) if you use *ezActi2* in your research and publications.